---
title: About diagrams.net
layout: page
permalink: /about.html
---

diagrams.net is an open source technology stack for building diagramming applications, and the world’s most widely used browser-based end-user diagramming software.

We promise you we won’t hide your data from you and will always give you some way to open and edit that data, at no cost. When companies pay us money it should be because we add value, not because they are locked in.

We are disrupting the industry with a new business model that makes reasonable profits to pay a dedicated, professional software team, but doesn't use [artificial scarcity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Artificial_scarcity) to produce a bloated sales-centric company with matching revenues.

Our mission statement is __“provide free, high quality diagramming software for everyone”__.

###### Why?

* Diagramming software is worth $1B+ annually, but nothing is happening in the field that justifies this sales volume. Diagramming is a stock productivity web application, like word processing and spreadsheets.

* SaaS apps have a trust problem. Currently, vendors provide both the application and store your data, then charge you monthly to access it. They try to make sure the cost of leaving is more than the cost of renewal (not in a good way).

* As with most proprietary software, the revenue is generated by artificial scarcity, pushy sales and de facto file formats forcing companies to buy the product for which that format is native.

###### How?

* Our model is based on the viral effect of a free, open source application. When you share a diagrams.net diagram, you know anyone can open and edit it.

* By allowing you to build on the software for free, not just use it. Replacement proprietary software with a single open source application isn't helpful, either. You can take the existing diagrams.net base and build for specific vertical markets, add and improve on features. Competition is good.

* By picking one commercial ecosystem to charge for the application where the host product is pay-for and the profit margins greatest, and that was the Atlassian ecosystem. Note that you still control access to your data on Confluence and Jira, we don't resort to locking your data away, just because it's a commercial platform.

###### What's wrong with the traditional software models?

We're not passing moral judgement on anyone following other models. We're saying there are a number of software applications that pull in massive profits when they could be supplied far cheaper and the money saved spent on something that actually improves the world.

What is wrong with them is that companies end up becoming floors of salespeople ramming product down user's throats. That SaaS companies purposefully make it hard for users to get their data out and complex to convert that data to another format.
